# hugo-theme-pivotal-revealjs

## Introduction

[Hugo](http://gohugo.io) is a static site generator suitable for generating single and multi-page websites using standard themes (look & feel) and markdown (content).  It effectively provides a separation of concerns between the content and messaging and the look & feel.

[RevealJS](http://lab.hakim.se/reveal-js) is an HTML presentation framework.  Presentations in RevealJS are single page, static html sites.  Similar to Hugo, RevealJS effectively separates the content and messaging from the look & feel.  However, the single page aspect of Reveal can make it very hard to work with and enforce a solid separation of concerns.

By combining Hugo with RevealJS, we can quickly and generate impactful presentations by simply writing some configuration files and markdown.  The look & feel is contained within the theme, and individual slides are separated into individual files.

If you use this theme and follow the guide, we assure you of the following:

* Your presentation will run in a browser in online or offline mode
* Your presentation will be compatible with our content server, meaning we can serve it worldwide through our protected content delivery network
* We can add your presentation to concourse for automated lifecycle builds

## Prerequisites

Ensure you have [Hugo](http://gohugo.io) installed.  You do not need to install RevealJS.

**We only test in Chrome on Mac OX**

## Set Up

First, we will set up the directory structure for your new presentation and configure Hugo to use this theme.

* Create a new directory for your presentation
* `cd` into your new directory
* `hugo new site presentation`
* `cd presentation`
* `mkdir themes`
* `git submodule add git@github.com:pivotal-enablement-tools/hugo-theme-pivotal-revealjs.git themes/hugo-theme-pivotal-revealjs`
  * **be sure to use SSH github access** (not https) or the build will break when you add this to concourse

## Configure

The main configuration file in Hugo is called `config.toml` (in the presenation directory).  However, Hugo also supports yaml.  We recommend you change the name to `config.yml` and convert to yaml format.  Directions assume you have done this.

The following options are set in `config.yml`.

### Required

In config.yml:

* To use this theme, add the line:
```
theme: "hugo-theme-pivotal-revealjs"
```
* The title slide is automatically generated by this theme.  Set the `title` property to the name of your presentation.
```
title: "My Presentation"
```

### Optional

The following properties are set under the `params` property in config.yml.

#### Title slide

The following properties are set under the `titleSlide` property nested in the `params` property in config.yml.

* To set the background color of the title slide, add the following:

  ```
  params:
    titleSlide:
      backgroundColor: "#CCCCCC";
  ```

* To set the background image of the title slide, add the following:

  ```
  params:
    titleSlide:
      backgroundImage: "img/clouds.png"
  ```

* You can add speaker notes in markdown to the title slide by setting the following:

  ```
  params:
    titleSlide:
      notes: |
        # Put markdown here
        ...
        and span multiple lines
        ...
        as long as you maintain the correct indentation.
  ```

## Develop

View your presentation by running `hugo server -w` from the `presentation` directory.  It will be available at http://localhost:1313.

The `-w` flag makes Hugo watch for changes to your presentation, eliminating the need for manual restarts.  You can now work on your presentation locally.

### Title and End Slides

Title and End Slides are automatically generated for you.  See [Configure](#configure) above for title slide options.

#### Presenter Information

Presenter information can be added right before you present.  We want to ensure many people can re-use our presentations and therefore do not want to embed this information in your presentation.  See [Presenter Information](#presenter-information) below to use this feature.

### Adding Content Slides

[TO DO] Provide slide samples.

* check out the themes/hugo-theme-pivotal-revealjs/layouts/partial/content-slide.html for a list of slide types.
* add slides by creating a `<my-slide>.yml` file in the data/sections directory (you have to create the sections directory).
* Slides appear in alphabetical order so it recommended you prefix the slide with numbers.  Example `01_`.  And, give yourself room between numbers.
* Properties needed for each slide type are specified in the partial template in themes/hugo-theme-pivotal-revealjs/layouts/partial.
* Be sure to set the "type" property in your `<my-slide>.yml` file of it will use the slide-default.html partial.

## Presenting

You can present presentations in a few different ways.  All functionality will be the same.

### Online

If you have internet access and your presentation is deployed, simply access the URL in your browser.

> **RECOMMENDED**: If we created a concourse build for you, your presentation will be available in the [content registry](https://registry.enablement.pivotal.io).  Your presentation will be access controlled, tracked and served globally through our controlled contend delivery network.

> Ping us on the `#enablement` channel in slack if you want a concourse build set up.

### Offline

To present offline, you can either run Hugo or simply open the generated `index.html` file in Chrome.

* To run Hugo, change to your presentation directory and run:
```
hugo server -w
```
This is useful if you are making last minute changes.

* To run off the index.html, first run the `hugo` command from your presenation directory (you only have to do this once for each time you make changes).  This command will generate artifacts in `presentation/public`.  You can simply open the `index.html` file in this directory in Chrome.

  > **RECOMMENDED**: If you use our concourse builds, a zip file containing the contents of the public directory will be downloadable and available from the [content registry](http://registry.enablement.pivotal.io)

### Presentation Options

The following options are available regardless of how you chose to present (online or offline).

#### Presenter Information

We want to ensure many people can re-use our presentations and therefore do not want to embed this information in your presentation.

Presenter information can be added before you present by clicking the settings icon in the lower right corner.  Enter your presenter information and click `Update`.

*NOTE*: This information is cached using cookies.  It will be reset if you clear cookies in your browser.


#### On Screen Speaker notes

You can display speaker notes on screen during your presentation. This is useful for audiences where English is not a first language.

You can toggle this feature by clicking the settings icon in the lower right.
